Most Shopify stores are converting at
under 3%. If that's you, you're leaving
thousands of dollars on the table every
single month. Everyone tries to grow
their business by introducing more ads,
sending more emails, and pushing more
traffic to the top of the funnel. But
almost nobody talks about the fact that
if you simply 4xed your conversion rate,
you would take your business from
$500,000 to $2 million overnight. Sadly,
99% of brands [music] aren't doing CRO
at all. And the ones that are, they're
split testing button colors like it's
2019. In this video, I'm going to give
you the exact framework that I would use
if I was starting CRO from scratch. And
make sure you stick around because by
the end, you'll have a step-by-step game
plan to turn more visitors into buyers
this week. So, what CRO actually is and
why it matters stands for conversion
rate optimization. And it's really
simple. It's taking the traffic you
already have and turning more of those
visitors into paying customers. Most
brands, as I said, they don't think like
this. They're obsessed with traffic,
pumping money into ads, chasing new
channels. Alternatively, they just start
trying to grow their Tik Tok all of a
sudden, even though they've got an
existing website. And sure, traffic does
matter, but if your site doesn't
convert, all you're doing is pouring
more water into a bucket that's filled
with holes. Here's why this is such a
big mistake. Imagine you have 10,000
visitors hitting your store each month.
If the conversion rate is 2%, that gives
you 200 orders. But if you can lift that
to 4%, that's 400 orders. The same
traffic, double the sales at no extra
cost to the business. That's the real
power of conversion rate optimization.
The average Shopify store converts at 1
to 3%. The top 1% can hit 6 to 8% or
higher. Now, this does obviously depend
on what niche you're in, what your
average order value is, but that is the
average. But here's what a lot of people
don't understand is that conversion rate
alone doesn't tell the full story.
Conversion rate tells you how many
visitors buy, but AOV tells you how much
they spend when they do. And when you
combine the two metrics, you get RPV.
Then once you subtract all of your
costs, you're left with PPV, profit per
visitor, which is the metric that really
matters. If an optimization doesn't
increase RPV or PPV, then it's just
noise. A 5% conversion rate might look
impressive on paper, but if it drives
down your average order value and it
increases your cost, you're worse off.
So, focus on RPV and PPV because they're
the things that are going to keep the
lights on. The other thing to consider
is don't focus on these just for this
month. Think about it from a lifetime
value perspective. So, why isn't your
store converting and what the great
brands are doing instead? Most Shopify
stores fail at CRO because they're built
like old school retail sites. They're
making mistakes that instantly kill
trust and stop people from buying. So,
what are some of these common mistakes?
The first is inconsistent branding. You
click on an ad and land on a site that
looks completely different. Colors
clash, fonts don't match, and the whole
experience feels slightly off. This is a
lot of the drop shippers out there.
Then, we've got weak product info, such
as no sizing charts, no shipping
timelines, and no clear explanations of
the benefits of the products. Then,
we've got too much or too little text.
It can definitely go both ways. Some
stores drown you on copy. Others give
you one line and a blurry photo. Either
way, customers aren't going to trust
that. Then we got fake urgency, which
can, you know, urgency can be a great
conversion rate boost, but if it feels
disingenuine, it's not going to help
you. Another one, which is really bad
for early stage brands that have just
gotten started and don't have
photography, is low quality visuals,
such as blurry photos or generic stock
images that make your product feel
cheap. You want people to see the
product and instantly go, I know exactly
what I'm buying. I know the fabric
color. I know how it kind of fits, how
like this top right now, you can see
because I'm in video, you can see
exactly how it fits. If they had a
blurry photo or they used a blurry
video, you wouldn't build feel that
trust instantly. Next is cluttered
navigation such as this one where
there's just so many different options
as well. You really want to simplify
that as much as possible. What do the
great brands do instead? I'm not sure we
should have used Udy here. There's
plenty of great brands, but we do do
this quite well nowadays. We've got
consistent branding. You can see this is
from an email with a 30% off. Then we've
got the exact same branding. The fonts
and the vibe, the photography feels the
same on the actual header image on the
website. We've got clear product info.
We've used these iconography down here
to just describe the product details,
which people don't even need to read
that. you can just see the icons and
know exactly what it means. Then we've
got real offers, genuine discounts,
seasonal campaigns, and bundles that
they actually add value instead of
gimmicks. Highquality visuals. We spend
so much money on photography to make
sure customers know exactly how soft the
product really is. Then we got simple
navigation, which truthfully this is an
art. I don't even think our navigation
is as simple as it could be, but it does
get hard when you have lots of products.
The truth is most of you probably don't
have lots of products and you can
simplify yours a lot further. So what's
one of the main things you can do to get
way better conversion rate? I would fix
the offer first. The biggest leverage
point in CR is your offer. Getting this
right is what takes a brand from 500K to
2 million. When I say offer, I don't
just mean the product. I mean the full
package such as the price, the bundles,
the upsells, even something like a
guarantee. Even the way you position the
value. All of these things together is
what makes someone decide whether it's
worth buying. But most brands don't
think about their offer this way. They
simply think about gut feel and they
just copy and paste exactly what the
competitors are doing, which is the
worst thing you can do. You need a
unique offer. CRO is all about testing,
measuring, and adjusting. So, what
happens if your price is $1 higher or $5
lower? You won't know until you run the
test. Even the smallest changes can
shift your revenue and profit in a big
way. Think about it. If you sell a
product for $50 with a 2% conversion
rate, that's 100 orders per 5,000
visitors. Now, if you raise the price to
$55, the conversion rate might stay
exactly the same. In fact, we've
actually increased the price and it's
gone up, which is crazy. That's an
instant 10% lift in revenue without more
traffic. Or maybe the conversion rate
dips slightly to 1.8%, but you're still
generating more total revenue because
every sale is worth more. you're
probably delivering way more profit as
well because to facilitate those orders,
it's far cheaper. You've got less
customer service. You've got less
operations. The product cost itself is a
better percentage of revenue. So, for
example, 5,000 visitors at 2% conversion
rate and $50 AOV is $5,000 revenue. The
same 5,000 visitors at 1.8% and $55 AOV
is $4,950.
Almost the same. Next thing, we've also
got a pre purchase pop-up upsell, which
can also work. It's similar concept, but
before the checkout, it'll pop up and it
will be a far more obvious experience.
Then we've got post purchase, upsells,
and downells. In Daily Mentor, we've got
a great partner that we work with. the
customer will actually complete the
order. And then on the next screen where
it's the thank you page, there's another
really good offer and offer sequence
that can drastically increase the profit
per customer that you've actually made.
Because each customer, you've already
paid the customer acquisition cost. Now,
it's about just getting as much value
from that customer and providing great
offers for them to make it more
profitable for your business. The next
thing that we've got is bundles and
varants, which a lot of people don't
understand. The first is multiacks with
small discounts which you can see here.
I think this is true classic where
they're just adding multiple of the same
products. If you've got anything where
someone will need that, I highly
recommend testing that. Then we've got
premium or deluxe versions. I've seen
people doing this with like diffusers
where one would have sound and beautiful
smell. One just had the beautiful smell
and you it was all on the same product
page, but just simply adding those other
offers drastically increased their
conversion rate. Then we've got decoy
pricing. I don't really know about this
one. I don't really recommend it, but it
does work and a lot of people use it
where there's like good, better, best
pricing and you want people to take the
the most premium option cuz it's so
packed with so many features. So, next
up, we've got test, iterate, and repeat.
Once your offer is dialed, your work
isn't over. Zero is never finished.
Market shift, customers preferences
change, competitors copy you, and more
importantly, behavior changes. When
people see a certain unique offer or a
certain, you know, user experience on a
website, such as like a way that you
sign up for emails, and they see it over
and over, sometimes it loses its impact
because people are just so bored of it.
So, you constantly need to test it
because what worked last year won't
necessarily work this year. That's why
the best brands treat zero as a process,
not a one-time project. Test one
variable at a time, such as price, your
headline, call to action, upsells, your
bundles, all of that kind of stuff. and
never all at once. Otherwise, you'll
never know what caused the change. One
small focus gives clarity. And make sure
you use the right tool. I highly
recommend Visually. I've talked about me
being an investor with them, and I think
that they're amazing with a drag and
drop editor. Now, one thing's for sure,
you don't want to over complicate
tracking. A spreadsheet works when
you're small. As you grow, move into
dashboards to see patterns faster. Now,
here's one concept that blew my mind
when I learned it. One test might add
10%. Another one adds 15%. And then
another one adds 20%. On their own, each
feels small, but together the gains
compound. Suddenly, you're not at 45%
better, which is just adding each of
those numbers. You're two to three times
better because they're all multiplying
together. And that's the snowball effect
of CRO. Small wins stack until they
transform your store. And this creates
what I call the CRO flywheel. Every win,
every better product page, smarter
offers, smoother checkouts. These boost
revenue and boost profit per visitor.
Efficient ads free up budget, scale,
more tests, more wins, more growth. And
this cycle will just continue. Next is
we got build trust and handle
objections. Once your offer is strong
and you're testing one thing at a time,
the next step is trust. Because even if
you have the perfect price and bundles,
if people don't believe you and still
have doubts, they won't buy. Obvious one
is reviews as proof. People buy from
people. Numbers and logos don't convince
anyone anymore. Real customers do. The
right review can definitely do more than
your creative copywriting. And the best
reviews don't just say something like,
"Great product." They speak directly to
the objections running through a buyer's
mind. Use this framework to spot really
great reviews that you can highlight. At
first, I thought X, but actually why
because the customer is already thinking
the exact same thing. So, for example,
at first I thought the bands would rip,
but they've lasted months of daily use.
Another example, I thought the blanket
would be too hot, but it's the perfect
weight for all seasons. When written
this way, reviews act like pre-art and
FAQs from real people. They let new
customers see that others have the same
fear, and those fears turned out to be
wrong. The next thing is mining
objections. So, don't wait for these
objections to appear in your own
reviews. Go digging for them, such as
Amazonar reviews. Even if it's your
competitors, Tik Tok comment sections,
Reddit threads, all of these things are
gold binds and that's where you'll see
the truth about your product and the
truth about the objections that people
have for your product. So, what do we do
with all of those objections? We can
bake them directly into your product
descriptions, drop them in your ad copy,
or even use them as pinned comments
under your creatives. Instead of hiding
the objections, tackle them head on.
Then, we've got policies as trust
signals. One of the fastest ways to
destroy trust is hiding your return,
refund, or shipping details. If people
can't see them, they assume the worst.
So, don't bury them in a footer. Put
them right on the product page directly
under your ad to car. Simple lines with
free returns within 30 days or ships
within 3 to 5 business days instantly
reduce the risk for the customer. And
the result is you'll get a higher
revenue per visitor. Next, we've got
user generated content. UGC can boost
conversion rate by up to 30% alone. Why?
Because people buy from other people.
Unpolished photos, Tik Tok reactions,
raw customer videos. You can put these
because they're seeing them as ads. You
can even put them on the product page
underneath the ad to cart or as their
own section. They feel real. They feel
authentic and answer people's questions
such as, "Do people actually use this
product?" Then we've got layering trust
across the entire journey. The customer
journey isn't just your product page. It
starts the very second that they
actually land on your site. It actually
starts even before that. It starts when
they see your creative on Facebook. In
less than a blink, about 0.05 seconds,
they decide whether they can trust you
or not. This is what I was talking about
before. If your branding is
inconsistent, your homepage feels
unclear, or your site feels a little bit
scammy, they will bounce. So, make sure
your branding is consistent. Do things
like make sure your Instagram even
matches the branding. Make sure your
story highlights on Instagram all match
the same thing cuz people will just go
dive deep trying to find a reason not to
trust you. And remember, not everything
NCR needs to be tested. These things are
just common sense and you just want to
add them because they will build that
trust. Next, we've got smooth shopping
experience. I'm sure everyone has an
experience where they go onto a website,
it's really really overly designed or
you don't know what buttons do what.
You're clicking on things and they're
not even buttons. If it's clunky and
confusing, what's going to happen is the
customers [music] is actually going to
burn calories trying to think. And
people don't want to burn calories
thinking about stuff. Our bodies
naturally try to prevent ourselves from
doing that. So, you want it really
streamlined. You want to copy really,
really basic websites, really top
sellers in terms of how their website
works and make sure every button
actually clicks through. Then we've got
homepage must show value immediately.
So, your homepage has one job. clarity,
value, and direction. Too many brands
bury their products under lifestyle
content or brand fluff. The homepage
turns into a lookbook rather than a
store. Instead, feature your key
products front and center. Add a banner
that communicates your main offer, such
as free shipping, a seasonal sale, a
bundle deal, or even if you're a brand
new brand. It should just explain
exactly what you sell and the solution
that you solve. So, how do we make that
happen? The hero section of your
homepage is your first and sometimes
only charts to answer those questions.
Start with a clear headline, tell you
exactly what you offer. Add a sub
headline that explains why it matters to
them. And then show your product front
and center in the hero image. And give
them one obvious action like shop now.
That's the direction that we're talking
about. Then we've got the PDP, which is
product detail page. Your product page
has to do three jobs at once. Inform,
persuade, and drive action. miss one and
the sale is going to die. It should give
the buyers the key details to need to
persuade them with proof and clear
benefits. And then they should simply
take action. You want swatches that make
colors and sizes easy to choose. We've
got the type of pajamas such as warming
and cooling. So that might even just be
a style. It might be striped or polka
dots. Then we've got sizes as well. It's
very black and white about what we're
actually selling and they're selecting.
You want benefits written in short,
clear lines so people can skim quickly
and the essentials such as sizing,
shipping, and refund information. And
the copy itself should never feel heavy.
Instead of long, messy paragraphs, break
things into sections, but open as you
scroll. That way, the page feels light.
This is called an accordion. You can set
this up in any theme builder and then
click it and expands the copy if it's
relevant to them. We've got the cart and
checkout flow. This is where most sales
die. This is the final strategy. You
spent so much money, time, and effort to
get them here. How do we make sure that
we optimize it? We want them to be able
to review. We want to reassure them, and
then we want to convert them. The
biggest mistake here is forcing
customers onto a separate cart page.
That extra step adds friction and
confusing. The fix at the moment is use
a slide out draw cart so shoppers can go
straight to checkout. The easiest way to
do this is hopefully your theme builder
already has it, but you can use other
Shopify apps as well. And once they're
actually in the checkout stage, make
sure you've got all the payment options
such as PayPal, Apple Pay, Cler,
Afterpay, because a slow, clunky
checkout without lots of options doesn't
build trust. And make sure if you're
selling internationally, you've got auto
detect currency and language. Don't make
buyers do the math themselves. You can
easily get simple apps to autoconvert
this. And you can set up with Shopify
Markets with just a few clicks to give
the user the best user experience. I
hate purchasing things in USD if I'm
actually based in Australia because I
don't actually know if the website is
even operational in Australia. I want an
Australian seller in Australian dollars.
And that's what you should be passing on
to your customers, that trust and
connection. If you like this video, I
filmed completely free guides about how
to take your brand from zero to eight
figures. It's on YouTube. Go check it
out now.